Methodology

AIAL

☰

Home

Analysis

Methodology

Recommendations

Contact

Methodology

Development of a Quality Assessment Framework for the AI Act's Article 53(1)(d) Public Summaries

Cite as: Blankvoort, D. A. H., Pandit, H. J., & Gahntz, M. (2026).
Quality Assessment of Public Summary of Training Content for GPAI models required by AI Act Article 53(1)(d)
 (preprint). Zenodo.
DOI:10.5281/zenodo.18803975

Overview

After conducting a literature review of documentation quality assessment frameworks, we picked
Goal, Question, Metric (GQM)
  as the approach to identify criteria to assess the public summaries. Using GQM, we identified we identified
Transparency
 and
Usefulness
 as good
        overall indicators for intended stakeholders to understand the quality
        of the public summary. In this,
transparency
 refers to the
        extent of information provided through the public summary, and

usefulness
 represents the utility of provided information as
        well as its potential to be actionable by specific stakeholders. We
        selected
transparency
 due to its existing and established
        application in the context of legal documentation, for example as a
        principle in the GDPR, as well as being listed as an objective of
        methods such as model cards. And we chose
usefulness
, which is
        well-defined as a quality dimension in literature, as a broad measure of
        whether the provided information is sufficient to take meaningful
        actions and ensure accountability.

To assess
Transparency
, we identified 6 dimensions:
Clarity
,

Completeness
,
Consistency
, and
Correctness
, and for
Usefulness
 we identified
Accessibility
 and

Comprehension
. We then developed 242
metrics
 as specific questions or criteria that evaluate each field in each section of the public summary template. Since the public summary is structured such that each section has different implications for stakeholders, e.g. some may be interested only in Section 2.2 or Section 3, we evaluate each section using these metrics and then aggregate their scores to get the overall quality.

Using our framework, a
'high-quality'
 public summary is described as a document that
        provides information in a clear, structured, accurate, and consistent
        manner (
transparency
) such that it allows relevant stakeholders
        to understand the training process and to take relevant actions where
        necessary (
usefulness
). Public summaries that do not meet these
        requirements are considered as
`low-quality'
, and are
        potentially in breach of the template and the corresponding Article
        53(1)(d) obligations.

Complete details of our methodology and its use in assessments is provided in the article linked above.

Website Development

            We were inspired by previous approaches which analysed GPAI models and developed a website to share their assessments, in particular the

Open Source AI Index (OSAI)
 and its predecessor
Opening up ChatGPT
 (see the

🔗
FAccT'24 paper
).

This work has received funding from the Mozilla Foundation. The AIAL is supported by grants from following groups: the AI Collaborative, an Initiative of the Omidyar Group; Luminate; the Bestseller Foundation; the European Artificial Intelligence & Society Fund; and the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation. Our Host Institute are:
