About us & Contact

AIAL

☰

Home

Analysis

Methodology

Recommendations

Contact

About Us & Contact

Contact

We welcome queries, feedback, and collaborations on this work. In particular, please do reach out to us if:

You are a
GPAI Provider
 who has published a public summary and wishes to assess its quality, or has revised their public summary and wants us to reassess it, or wants to know how to improve an already published summary.

You are a
Rights-Exercise Stakeholder
 who wants to understand how to make use of the quality assessment to understand the public summary.

You are a
Researcher
 who has done similar work or wants to do similar work.

To get in touch, use:

Github
 to open issues and discussions

E-mail
aial@tcd.ie
 for formal enquiries and administrative matters

Contact
Dr. Harshvardhan Pandit
 at
harshvardhan.pandit@adaptcentre.ie

Contact
Dick Blankvoort
 at
dick.blankvoort@ru.nl

About us

Harshvardhan Pandit
 is a research fellow at the AI Accountability Lab at Trinity College Dublin, specializing in the implications of regulations on technology and how these solve or hinder real-world challenges associated with privacy, legal and regulatory compliance, and consent. His PhD (Computer Science, Trinity College Dublin) explored the application of linked data and semantic web technologies towards GDPR compliance, with a particular focus on consent and provenance.

Dick Blankvoort
 is a researcher at the European Open Source AI Index and a former visiting researcher at the AI Accountability Lab. His work focuses on the open-source AI and the societal implications of AI systems.

Maximilian Gahntz
 is the AI Policy lead at Mozilla Foundation.

This work has received funding from the Mozilla Foundation. The AIAL is supported by grants from following groups: the AI Collaborative, an Initiative of the Omidyar Group; Luminate; the Bestseller Foundation; the European Artificial Intelligence & Society Fund; and the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation. Our Host Institute are:
